Well now we have something exciting
We're pleased to feature a new part on our Giliad program this year
Now they've made me promise not to say another word
So let's enjoy this new feature together
Thanks for coming follow me. I need to talk to Ken about something really important come on
Ken, I have some interesting news. I need to share with you. It's exciting. I can tell by the look on your face
Something's up. It is. It's about the great graduation program. Oh, no, not a change. Yeah a change
But it's so intricate it's positive
You know the student experiences part that we've had for many years
They share their field service experiences and I do too
But the teaching committee wants to broaden it out look Ken the students are from all over the world coming from various branches
They have experiences they can share perhaps from their own branch or maybe something about the kingdom work
That has taken place in that country. It's going to be exciting different interesting. I like it
But I'm wondering yeah, but I'm wondering you know everybody's used to that experience is format
What I know what's the format of this new segment going to love it a talk show a talk show a talk show
It means though you're gonna have to build a set you're gonna have to have lighting
What about if they can sing or there's musical instruments that they can play we'll need a little spot for them to actually
Perform a song. I'm thinking though if it's gonna be a show. Mm-hmm. It's got to have a nice you make it unique. Okay
The inside story can
Because you're getting it resonates you're getting inside the inside story. Let's go with that. Okay, but Mark
We are weeks away from Gilead graduate. I know we'll have to work hard to pull this off. Do you think we can get this down in time?
Let's see
Friends you are in for a real treat
I'm here with the whole class of Gilead and they've gotten together to get better acquainted with some of their classmates and
We have been invited to this occasion
You are going to meet some lovable brothers and sisters and you're going to hear some exciting faith strengthening experiences
You're going to also hear some delightful music because some in this class have musical talent
So come with me and we're going to get the inside story
Our first guest is sister Evelyn Huber who is a single sister in this class and she's serving in Paraguay
Evelyn, thank you so much. You were living in a neighborhood like this in
Munich a culturally rich city
You lived in an apartment
Like this very sleek modern nice
You had a good paying job and you were pioneering
How did you end up clear around the world in Paraguay?
That was actually quite a change for me
So there was this German Kingdom Ministry back then in 2005 that mentioned
Large German-speaking community in Paraguay and a great need for German-speaking publishers
They're in South America and that call that announcement really touched my heart
I wanted to go there. I wanted to serve there
So I wrote my letter to the branch they invited me over and a few months later
I arrived in Paraguay and they sent me together with seven others to Santa Rosa de la Guadalu and
There we started a German activity from zero
Now when you got there though you got a little bit of a surprise so we arrived in the first colony
And I talked to a man and after my nice introduction he just looked at me was big eyes and he said
I couldn't even for stone. So sorry. I can't understand you
And I looked at him and I said I can't understand you either
That was the moment when I realized these people the men on nights they don't speak our German
They have their own language. They're so called low German. How do you learn low German?
They don't exist any books
For learning the language low German and we didn't have internet at that time in our area in Paraguay
So we really didn't know how to learn the language
We pray to Jehovah and we said Jehovah we really want to preach to these people and the 80-year-old man onite man
Was the answer to our prayer
That's him that's Willie
He really wanted to study the Bible so we taught him the Bible and he taught us the language low German
And he was an excellent Bible student and also a fantastic language teacher
Well, isn't that amazing now I do understand though that you
You learned a trick that helped you to be better understood by those low German speakers
We found out when we spoke our German like Americans with an American accent
No, with with an American accent. What do you mean by that? I give you an example good morning in German
We would say good morning and Americans would say good turn more against there
Please talk to us like that. This is so much better to understand you
So for quite a while we kept on going like that. So the American accent really helped you
Okay
Finally you came to a realization that you were beginning to get fluid in the language. How did that happen?
We went out again in ministry and
very furious lady man onite lady came out of her house and while she was yelling at us
I realized wow, I understand everything the word that she's saying to me
So I looked at my pioneer partner Tanya. She looked so happy too and
And the lady thought we couldn't understand her because you're smiling at her
So she repeated the whole thing again, and that was our confirmation
Wow, we really understood her and we really understood low German
So with a big smile and very happy we left her farm. I see. I'm sure she was really confused
Evelyn could you just kind of explain to us? What are some of the challenges you face as a single sister in your territory there in Paraguay?
Let's go to Paraguay
Would you join me traveling to a man onite colony?
Let's go
The trip takes us approximately three hours
Now we enter the real Paraguayan roads
Bright red sand sometimes dry and dusty and sometimes just muddy and dirty
There we are, traveling, having time to enjoy Chihau's wonderful creation and to think about the people we are going to visit today
Do you know what we especially love when we enter a colony and the following happens?
Children come running out of their homes asking for new Caleb and Sophia videos
Kids just love the videos and we are so happy to have them now also in low German
Ah now you see what man onite homes look like
They have nice houses lovely gardens
They all have their own farm
It's really a pleasure when you get to study with the man onites
It's so encouraging when one of your studies progresses enough to come to the meetings
It takes great courage for them
And you really have to meet my congregation
Santa Rosa, low German, full of Salis pioneers and publishers
Ah look at them
Here I might be love brothers and sisters so good to see them all again
They all send us their love
That was a very touching video it seems like such an exciting life
I realized how much Chihauva can do with single sisters how he uses them
And in my congregation there are actually more than 50% single sisters
The long heritage actually for sisters going to Gilia serving in foreign assignments
Chihauva really loves single sisters they are precious for him
Well that's certainly the truth
And we are very proud of you and all the single sisters
And very appreciative of the huge contribution that you've made to the worldwide work
And the kingdom efforts it's it's amazing and we know Chihauva loves you
It's been such a pleasure getting to know you Evelyn
Thank you so much for sharing your experiences with us
That was my pleasure
Thank you
Now Evelyn I have one more question for you
Were you surprised to find out that there was so much musical talent in your class?
Oh I definitely was
Well now it's time to get a sample of that musical talent
We have a band
They're going to perform an original song composed by one of your classmates
And the song is entitled Pronto Serra Realidad
In English that means soon it will be a reality
Let's listen to Pronto Serra Realidad
That was a great song very touching
Our next guest is actually one of the band members
Let's welcome brother Joel Hurley
So Joel you're serving at the branch in Australia now
But you have a rich heritage in the truth that given to you by your grandparents
Parents could you just explain a little bit about that to us
My grandfather actually learnt the truth from a fellow band member
He was so impressed with the use of God's name
And that God's name was Chihauva
That he made sure that he taught the truth to many family members
But sometime later in 1960
They decided as a family to move to serve with a need was greater
So they moved to the Pacific Islands in Fiji
So my dad grew up in Fiji
I see, I think we have a picture yeah
This is my dad next to the car
They're witnessing to the village chief and his family
So memories of them growing up in Fiji
Later on he married my mum
They continued to serve there for some time
They really did have a big impact on my early years
Preaching in the villages
Organising special conventions events
Such as the around the world convention
So we see brother friends
So now as a young person then you decided to learn Japanese
Why did you do that?
In the early 80s there was a Japanese group attached to the Kingdom Hall where we attended
So there was a need at the time in that group
In fact many from Japan came to help out
They encouraged me to learn Japanese
So I began to learn the language
So you've been speaking Japanese now for a how long?
30 odd years, my goodness
Now you went to MTS and after MTS graduation
Tell us about some of your assignments
For the first assignment was with the Japanese group
And shortly after it became a congregation
A whole range of different backgrounds came into the truth
CEOs in Japanese companies
Young ones for the first time who learnt the truth
Even a Buddhist monk learnt the truth and became a zealous pioneer in the congregation
What was your next assignment?
Was the other side of the country, to Western Australia, to a country assignment
Western Australia, now is that the outback?
We've all heard about the outback
Well parts of it are called the golden outback
But there's a lot of bushland
There's a large farming community
Wait, she have a picture here
Some of the things
In fact there's a variety of people we were able to speak to in that territory
You say a variety of people
I don't see too many people in that picture
Where did this variety come from?
Well there were townships
There were the farmers
There were bushes, ones who live off the land
Australia and Aborigines
And tourists
Tourists
So we're out there in rural Australia
There are tourists
What is there to see?
Well they'd come to visit the famous icons in the area
For example Waverock
This is a natural rock formation in the shape of a breaking wave
In fact one time there was this Japanese man
He'd cycled across Australia
And he was capping not far from the rock
I was able to speak and use my Japanese
He was interested
The next day he traveled 100 or so kilometers to where I was living
Followed up the interest
And then was able to pass it on to Japan for further follow up
Were there a congregation out there in the rural area?
It was a small family like congregation
We stuck together
I see, so how far were they have to drive sometimes?
Over 100 kilometers in many instances
On gravel roads
Roads whereby a mob of kangaroos
Could actually come out
So quite changed
Sorry, one second
A mob of kangaroos?
What's that?
I was wondering the same thing
What do you mean a mob?
For example
Coming home from a Bible study on dusk one night on a dirt road
Suddenly I find this mob of kangaroos
10, 15 kangaroos around the car
So just have to be careful in those areas
To make sure we take caution at all times
That's quite a picture
You know, middle picture all these kangaroos bouncing around the car
After that rural assignment
You had some assignments to some bigger cities
And then you did some substitute circuit work
And then you were reassigned to Bethel
So at Bethel you're back in the Japanese congregation
So Joel, tell us
What is it like being at Bethel serving in a Japanese congregation
But would you like to have a look at a video
Which explains what our territories like?
Of course we would
We only have one Japanese language congregation in Sydney
So our territories are vast
We typically spend long days in the ministry
Some of us will leave early in the morning
To catch the ferry and go to a popular tourist place
Called Circular Key
There's many Japanese tourists here
We'll often find a group of Japanese tourists
Setting up to take a photo
And we might approach them and say
Shushin or Torimashoka
Can I take a photo for you?
A good conversation then begins
The many young Japanese pioneers still in school
May join up with us later in the afternoon
The interested person may hear the message for the first time
And attend the meeting that night
We often enjoy refreshing association with each other in the congregation
Particularly after a long day in the ministry
Recently we just had our first pioneer school in Japanese
They were so grateful they didn't have to travel back to Japan to attend the school
There's really no separation between ministry and life
It is life
The best life
Thank you for sharing that video
It seems like you have a very nice assignment there
Now looking back over your life, Joel
Would you have chosen now looking back to do anything else
At times they have been challenges
Whether that be loneliness or isolation
Because of language or the environment
But it's really given me an opportunity to rely on Jehovah God at that time
To learn endurance
He's provided family, friends, wherever I've gone
And to be able to sense Jehovah's pleasure
And Jehovah's support at these times is something that I'm really grateful for
Joel this has been very pleasurable talking to you
And very encouraging
Thank you for sharing your experiences with us
Now Joel is time for you to go back to the piano
Our band is going to play another song for us
And like the first one, this is an original composition
Written by one of your classmates
This song is entitled The Promised Land
Let's listen
What a beautiful song
What wonderful sentiments are expressed there
Well we've been to Paraguay
We've been to Australia
Now it's time to go to Russia
Our final guest is Brother Moses Ejiboya
Who's serving in the Russia brand
Back in 1988, you were a man in your late teens
Pioneering in Britain
But somehow you ended up in Soviet Russia
Pioneering in a country under band
How did that happen Moses?
In my pioneer partner and myself
We were out in the ministry and met a man
Who happened to be a diplomat from Russia
And he was interested and we would go back to him and make return visits regularly
And after a few weeks he told us that
We want to go to Moscow
He offered us actually a free language scholarship for three months
That was back in 1988
What happened in the meantime?
Following the three months during the language course
The professor, one of the professors who was teaching the language
helped to upgrade my language scholarship into a medical scholarship
A medical scholarship?
Like a medical student
My goodness, so now you're going to medical school
And you're pioneering
That's right, absolutely
But even so, you really didn't plan to finish the medical degree
But what happened?
I thought that the band will be lifted pretty soon
And I will be serving as a pioneer
Where in the territory where the need is great
But you see, the lifted of the band took several years
And so you kept going to medical school?
That's right
1991, March 27th, could you just explain to us about that?
The band was lifted, we are registered
It means that we have freedom of religion
So we cannot stay in those private homes anymore
I think we have a picture, yeah
And so yeah, this is the first place we actually got
It was a movie theater
And one part of Moscow
We rented and read the first letter that we got from the organization
About the lifting of the band
The brother who read it
It took him about 20 minutes to read
One and a half pages later
Why did it take so long?
Well, you can imagine
Many years, they were on the band
And now the band is lifted
The friends cannot believe
Even the brother himself
There was a lot of crying
And cries of joy
And it's touching moment
I never forget that
How did you care for all the new ones coming in?
By 1992, we already have four large congregations in Moscow
When you say large, how many we talking?
Well up to 800 publishers
And each of them, if we had enough elders
Those congregations would have split into three, four or even five
We used to have, for example, book studies
You only had a few elders, how did you have enough book study conductors
We figured out that any male member of the congregation
Who get baptized
Will get a book study
They were happy, they made themselves available
They were very zealous
But some of the material we discussed
To the book study was pretty deep
How did they manage to teach it correctly?
We would put all these newly baptized
The brothers who have book study together on the Sunday evening
And have three to four hours sections with them
Yes, they had a brother, some of them
These brothers are newly baptized
Book study conductors
And this was just one of the groups, there were several groups like this
Many
My goodness
How did you manage even on the weekend to have enough speakers for public talks and things?
Absolutely
In Moscow, at that time there were only a few elders
So we were all grouped together
Basically into one body of elders
And each one of us were on a rotating list of giving public talks
So some brothers on the weekends
Saturday and Sundays we had many meetings
They would go and give two or three talks
Myself, because I was single
Very often gave four to five talks every weekend
Oh my goodness, amazing
Now, let's take a look at this next picture we have here
So here we see Brother Jeris
This is shortly after the ban
And can you tell us one of the things he's explaining to you here?
We were all in the audience and he told us of the importance
To go through the baptismal questions
With each individually
And then we sat in the audience
Most of us said, oh, how on earth are we going to do that?
Because before that, you know, Brother Stomo
Where we put 30, 40 people together
And just go through the questions with them
Because the influx was so big
We basically cannot handle them individually
But Brother Jeris proved the point by telling us that
The organization to accomplish a ministry book
Is for that purpose
Because we want a spiritually strong organization
Not just the statistics
We obeyed
But it was not easy in the beginning
So, how did you do it?
I mean, how long did it take to go through these questions with these baptismal candidates?
Well, it took many hours for many others to do that
Myself because I was single
And young back then, I remember occasions
Where you will sit at 8 a.m. with the first candidate
Baptismal candidate and end up only at 12 midnight
They will take their turns
After work, they will come
They will not want to miss their turn
That was how zealous the harvest was
So, let me get this straight
So, you're pioneering
You're going to medical school
You're giving five talks on the weekend
You're spending three hours in sessions with book study conductors
You're spending from 8 to midnight with baptismal candidates
How did you do it?
Holy Spirit
And we went young
When we went young, we think we can move mountains
But the Holy Spirit was actually obvious
The branch then has asked you to come
Or ask you to come to the branch from the field
And probably you were happy because that would have been relief
I mean, from this schedule
You know, to be honest, Burstova, it was the opposite
It was the harvest time
And you know, to experience the joy of what Jesus said about the harvest
That the harvest is great
And the workers are joyous
Many things were happening
People were coming in
We were studying the Bible with hundreds of people
You say you've actually been involved with helping hundreds of people into the church?
Directly or indirectly sitting and studying the Bible
And so, I didn't hurry to go down there
Conventions were going on all these meetings
But, they tracked you down
Oh yes, they did
And I was obedient when they tracked me down
And later on, I apologize for my behavior
So, what did you do when you went to the branch?
The branch actually wanted me to set up the hospital information desk work
Amazing, so that medical training really has been very valuable
So, what is it like then, working with HID in Russia?
How about if we look at the video, it would be easier
To just give you a chest of what happens
And how is that work is going on in Russia?
That would be great
One of our sisters was told she needed a blood transfusion
But the doctor said, they should forget about the religion
Because I am like God to them
Incidentally, I cut a cockroach crawling on the floor of his office
Then I smashed the cockroach
And I told him, that cockroach is dead
Now, if you can bring it back to life, then I believe you are a God
Well, he could say nothing at all
Righteous indignation gave me the courage to go and plead our case with the director of the hospital
There's no doubt Jehovah really was helping us
That director became one of our strongest advocates and bloodless surgeries
Later, he would even speak on our behalf to many doctors and conferences
Look at this beautiful little girl
She was born with a blood condition
It was a real fight not to give her blood
Her case went all the way to the European court and we won the case
There she is now, healthy and happy
Experiences like these in the HLC work have really touched my heart
Moses, thank you so much for those very encouraging experiences
It wasn't just an amazingly enjoyable occasion
It's been so thrilling, so faith-strengthening to
Get to know these brothers and sisters who have worked so hard
Who Jehovah has blessed to such a degree
Really, we wish and hope that Jehovah blesses you
As you continue to work hard in his service
Until the next time we get together to get the inside story
Well, what did you think of the new feature?
I'm sure we'll be seeing more of that in the future
We can certainly hope
Well now it's time for you to participate again
If you can, would you please stand?
We'll sing song number 110
Which is entitled The Joy of Jehovah
Song 110